Integrated User Cluster Backup (#1636)
kubermatic/docs: content/kubermatic/main/tutorials-howtos/cluster-backup/_index.en.md

+++
title = "Integrated User Cluster Backup"
date = 2023-02-20T12:00:00+01:00
weight = 3

> +++

Reviewer: Since this is an EE feature, we can mark this page as an "EE" feature by adding

```
enterprise = true
```

> ## [Experimental] Integrated User Cluster Backup

Reviewer: This headline isn't needed (see the [preview](https://deploy-preview-1636--cranky-newton-4e6ed2.netlify.app/kubermatic/main/tutorials-howtos/cluster-backup/)) since the `title` is already used as a page headline.

To mark this as experimental, you could instead do something similar to what was done on the "Encryption at Rest" page: https://github.com/kubermatic/docs/blob/master/content/kubermatic/main/tutorials-howtos/encryption-at-rest/_index.en.md?plain=1#L8

Removing this headline also means updating the following headlines to one level higher ( `##` instead of `###`).

+++
title = "Integrated User Cluster Backup"
date = 2023-02-20T12:00:00+01:00
weight = 3
enterprise = true
+++

{{% notice warning %}}
This feature is in an early stage and considered an **experimental feature**.
{{% /notice %}}

With KKP version 2.18, the Community Edition provided users with the ability to perform and manage [automated backups and restores]({{< ref "../etcd-backups" >}}) for the user clusters' etcd rings. With this automated backup feature, cluster and project administrators are able to fully restore a user cluster to a previous state.

> KKP 2.25 introduces a new backup feature for Enterprize customers, by integrating [Velero backup](https://velero.io/) as a backup solution for user clusters. In the 2.25 release, the integration is experimental and expected to be extended in the future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KKP 2.25 introduces a new backup feature for Enterprise customers, by integrating [Velero backup](https://velero.io/) as a backup solution for user clusters. In the 2.25 release, the integration is experimental and expected to be extended in the future. 
```

With this integration, KKP allows project owners/editors to manage backups for specific workloads, namespaces or labels. It also supports the backup and restore of Persistent Volumes content. 

For this experimental release, KKP supports the default AWS provider for s3 compatible storage backends, and Velero's [File System Backup](https://velero.io/docs/v1.12/file-system-backup/) for PersistentVolume backups. This allows the feature to be used with minimal infrastructure requirements and cover a wide range of use cases.

KKP Velero integration provides project owners/editors with the ability to centrally manage user cluster backups from a simple interface. The project owner can define as many Cluster Backup Storage Locations as needed, and can assign them to user clusters. Project owners/editors can also define Backup Schedules per cluster, perform on-time backups and restores.

### Using Integrated User Cluster Backup 

> Cluster backup is disabled by default as an experimental feature. To use it, the KKP Administrator needs to enable it the Admin Panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster backup is disabled by default as an experimental feature. To use it, the KKP administrator needs to enable it the admin panel.
```

![Enable Backup](/img/kubermatic/main/tutorials/cluster-backup/enable-bakcup-kkp.png?classes=shadow,border "Enable Backup")

Once UI dashboard options are available, the project owner must defined at least one Cluster Backup Storage Location.

#### Cluster Backup Storage Locations

> The KKP UI allows Project owners/editors to manage Cluster Backup Storage Locations that can be used for any clusters in the same project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The KKP UI allows project owners/editors to manage Cluster Backup Storage Locations that can be used for any clusters in the same project.
```

> The `ClusterBackupStorageLocation` resource is a simple wrapper for Velero's [Backup Storage Location](https://velero.io/docs/v1.12/api-types/backupstoragelocation/) API type. Both types share the same Spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ClusterBackupStorageLocation` resource is a simple wrapper for Velero's [Backup Storage Location](https://velero.io/docs/v1.12/api-types/backupstoragelocation/) API type. Both types share the same spec.
```

![Create Backup](/img/kubermatic/main/tutorials/cluster-backup/create-backup.png?classes=shadow,border "Create Backup")

You can select the Namespaces that you want to include in this backup configuration from the dropdown list. Note that this list of Namespaces is directly fetched from your cluster, so you need to create the Namespaces before configuring the backup.

You can define the backup expiration period, which defaults to **30 days** and you can also choose if you want to backup Persistent Volumes or not. KKP integration uses Velero's [File System Backup](https://velero.io/docs/v1.12/file-system-backup/) to cover the widest range of use cases. Persistent Volumes backup is enabled by default.

{{% notice note %}}
Backing up Persistent Volume data to s3 backend can be resource intensive, especially if your cluster has a large volume of working data that is not critical or if you have limited storage resources in the backend. You can defined opt-in/out configuration for your user cluster workloads as detailed in the Velero [documentation](https://velero.io/docs/v1.12/file-system-backup/#to-back-up)
{{% /notice %}}

##### Scheduled Backups

> Creating Scheduled almost identical to one-time backups. In this case, you will go to the Schedules submenu, select your user cluster and click `Create Backup Schedule`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating scheduled backups is almost identical to one-time backups. Configuration is available from the "Schedules" submenu, selecting your user cluster and clicking `Create Backup Schedule`.
```

Language here is a bit inconsistent, "will" is not used anywhere else.

> For Schedules, you also need to add a cron-style schedule to perform the backups. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For schedules, you also need to add a cron-style schedule to perform the backups. 
```

![Create Backup Schedule](/img/kubermatic/main/tutorials/cluster-backup/create-schedule.png?classes=shadow,border "Create Backup Schedule")

##### Downloading Backups

> KKP UI provides a convenient button to download Backups. You can simply go to the Backups list, select a user cluster and a specific backup, then click the Download Backup button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KKP UI provides a convenient button to download backups. You can simply go to the "Backups" list, select a user cluster and a specific backup, then click the "Download Backup" button.
```

{{% notice note %}}

> The s3 endpoint defined the Cluster Backup Storage Location must be accessible to the device used to download the backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The s3 endpoint defined in the Cluster Backup Storage Location must be accessible to the device used to download the backup.
```

{{% /notice %}}

#### Performing Restores
To restore a specific backup, go to the Backups page, select your cluster and find the required backup. Click on the `Restore Backup` button.

Velero restores backups by creating a `Restore` API resource on the clusters and then reconciles it.

![Create Restore](/img/kubermatic/main/tutorials/cluster-backup/create-restore.png?classes=shadow,border "Create Restore")

Simply, set a name for the restore request, and select the Namespaces that you would like to restore.

> You can later track the restore status from the Restore Page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can later track the restore status from the Restore page.
```

![Restore Status](/img/kubermatic/main/tutorials/cluster-backup/restore-status.png?classes=shadow,border "Restore Status")

### Security Consideration

> KKP administrators and Project Owners/editors should be carefully plan the backup storage strategy of projects and user clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KKP administrators and project owners/editors should be carefully plan the backup storage strategy of projects and user clusters.
```
